well I already there internet people
let's bow again so today we're gonna
talk about a question I got and
sheepdogs and operators this video is
mainly for cops everybody should watch
it though because it's gonna give you a
whole lot of insight into a very lively
debate that is occurring right now
the question was about whether or not
certain types of entries should be
banned dynamic and what people are
calling no knocks in our current system
no no that they shouldn't be banned
there are extremely useful tool in
certain circumstances however big
however here I don't know an exact
number but I'm saying
98% of the times it gets used is not in
those circumstances it is it is way
overused and it's an inherently risky
thing okay so when is it appropriate to
do not to do a no-knock when the suspect
is dangerous or is dangerous and will
flee if they're gonna flee and they're
not dangerous a lot of them you can get
a get it later there's no reason to
accept the risk for somebody who's not
dangerous so take that one out that's it
period full stop that's one that's
appropriate to do this to effect an
arrest now there are other situations
from which the same tactics get used
like if someone's holding someone but
that's a little bit different that's not
what's being discussed right now I know
that by current thought in doctrine
people say that it's to preserve
evidence no that's just flat-out wrong
no because when they say that what
they're talking about is well the people
inside might flush it if the quantity is
so small that it can be flushed it's not
worth doing a dynamic entry over it's
not to be used for every penny any
person that comes along
speaks for the big fish you guys want to
be operators right SILS Delta you won't
be like though they don't go after the
little guys that's not when they're used
because it's special because it's
inherently risky so that's not the case
so how do you do that you want to
preserve evidence and you're worried
that the people inside might flush it
might get rid of it or it's something
that can be gotten rid of in another way
well you have normal cops go up and
serve a normal warrant when they're not
home and go inside and preserve the
evidence at the exact same time you have
your team of operators get the suspect I
know that's hard that's hard
it requires like coordination and
everything two teams is really
complicated
I thought you wanted to be operators
you've got radios you can do this it's
not difficult and there's a whole lot
less risk there's a whole lot less risk
and the thing is the risk because of the
amount of firepower that these teams
typically have coupled with the lack of
training that these teams typically have
the risk is absorbed by the people that
you're ostensibly there to protect as in
that recent incident rounds can end up
in other residences it is not to be used
all the time now when you're talking
about the dangerous suspect then the
very first thing you have to do is make
sure they're there make sure they're
actually at the location you're going to
that require somebody on your team
somebody that actually is is is on your
team some $50.00 snitch doesn't count
somebody on your team has physically
seen them laid eyes on their inside
and they haven't left if that hasn't
happened and you weren't a hundred
percent certain that their home you
can't do it you can't do it because by
your own reasoning you're worried
they're gonna flee and if knocking on
the door is going to provide them enough
time to flee imagine what happens in the
hours that have that occur after a
botched raid you can't do it protip
criminals don't normally change the
address on their driver's license when
they move so if you're just using that
yeah you're gonna hit the wrong place a
lot this is risky it's very very
dangerous
it should not be used all the time and
it is most dangerous for the people not
involved I get it
your sheepdogs there to protect the
flock the herd from the wolf I like it
it's actually a great analogy what
happens when a sheepdog bites one of the
flock they don't get to be a sheepdog
anymore do they
that should probably happen if a team
leader conducts something and it ends up
a house that's empty or they're not at
home or whatever that person should not
be employed anymore because they put
everybody their team the surrounding
civilians everybody at risk for nothing
this is inherently risky it seems like
you should know that and then when the
situation like the recent incident
occurs people act surprised because you
don't have the training to go along with
it
you took a 40-hour course on
room-clearing
that's not enough the whole reason
dynamic entries are used is because
they're disorienting they are guaranteed
to trigger fight flight or freeze they
won't always trigger fleet freeze and if
that's the case and you're in the wrong
spot
innocent people may return because they
don't know who you are they have no
reasonable reason to believe that
they're cops they're not doing anything
wrong
this is overused it's overused and I get
it you want to be operators it's cool
that's why it gets used talk to some of
them talk to some actual operators ask
them to break it down into percentages
how much time do they spend kicking
doors and how much time do they spend on
preparation intelligence surveillance
training that that part that you want to
do that's the final 1% that's like the
last seven minutes everything else
leading up to that is missing in most
departments training if you guys if your
guys can't consistently put their rounds
into a 5x7 card under pressure real
pressure they have no business doing
this none
this is something that needs to be
reformed drastically because otherwise
the bags are gonna keep getting filled
and people are going to keep saying we
didn't know yes you do yes you do this
isn't new it's been like this since the
80s
40 years to change to make it right to
train to get your department and your
teams up to speed and you haven't done
it at that point yeah your department
shouldn't be doing at the end of the day
any any loss of life because this is
supposed to be a life saving tool any
loss of life is firmly on the hands of
the department and if they haven't done
the bare minimums that were covered here
it's not an accident its negligence to
willful negligence anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
day